So, in this lesson I want to start with
the big picture of why there are so
many codecs and what purpose they serve.
The main purpose of a codec is
to reduce the number of bits
it takes to represent some signal,
compress the data.
So, why do we need to compress the data?
And, then why exactly does it work?
It will work only if we know
something about the signals.
What is important in the signal, and
what is redundant in the signal.
Once we know that, we can go ahead and
compress the signals.
And, of course, there is a price to
be paid either for lossless/codecs or
even codecs,
where some of the information is lost.
And that is it introduces latency, it
costs battery power to do the compression.
So, we will look at the evaluation
criteria for assessing various codecs.